README.md, before:

# Ava's Global speedrunning leaderboard
A global leaderboard for competitive speedrunning powered by speedrun.com

Disclaimer: This is still in early testing and subject to drastic changes if needed.  
Ex.: I'm planning of making this an actual webap with its own SQL database rather than a client connecting to GSheets.


**[See the leaderboard](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KpMnCdzFHmfU0XDzUon5XviRis1MvlB5M6Y8fyIvcmo#gid=518408346)**  
**[DOWNLOAD THE CLIENT](https://github.com/Avasam/speedrun.com_-unofficial-_global_leaderboard/releases)**  
You can download this compiled version of the client to update any user you want.


How the score is calculated:
- The sum of every valid PB of a user is scored according to a formula. (see [Formula/Curves](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Wv63zu3YY7vAJAzWgZwL4rHE9esxxN0B8DztJgNyjiQ#gid=156937478))
- Said formula gives you more points the closest to #1 you are on a leaderboard and the more players there are. Wich encourages having a good rank in games with a lot of players without having to be first (altough being in the top does give a lot of points because you have a lot more competition).
- The only 2 arbritrary numbers are: 4 and 60%
    - 4 is the minimum amount of players that should be present in a leaderboard.
    - 60% minimum percentile needed in a leaderboard for a run to be worth any point.

Individual levels are not considered atm (only full game runs).

Runs w/o video/image verifications are not considered AND not counted.

If there's any balance issue in the formulas, that's an easy fix. (but that's literally just changing number, I'm not too worried about it).

Commit message:

Exclude score leaderboards
Fix #2 Score leaderboards that aren't actual speedruns
Updated REAMDME

README.md, after:

# Ava's Global speedrunning leaderboard
A global leaderboard for competitive speedrunning powered by speedrun.com

Disclaimer: This is still in early testing and subject to drastic changes if needed.  
Ex.: I'm planning of making this an actual webap with its own SQL database rather than a client connecting to GSheets.


**[See the leaderboard](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1KpMnCdzFHmfU0XDzUon5XviRis1MvlB5M6Y8fyIvcmo#gid=518408346)**  
**[DOWNLOAD THE CLIENT](https://github.com/Avasam/speedrun.com_-unofficial-_global_leaderboard/releases)**  
You can download this compiled version of the client to update any user you want.


How the score is calculated:
- The sum of every valid PB of a user is scored according to a formula. (see [Formula/Curves](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Wv63zu3YY7vAJAzWgZwL4rHE9esxxN0B8DztJgNyjiQ#gid=156937478))
- Said formula gives you more points the closest to #1 you are on a leaderboard and the more players there are. Wich encourages having a good rank in games with a lot of players without having to be first (altough being in the top does give a lot of points because you have a lot more competition).
- The only 2 arbritrary numbers are: 4 and 60%
    - 4 is the minimum amount of players that should be present in a leaderboard.
    - 60% minimum percentile needed in a leaderboard for a run to be worth any point.
- Runs w/o video/image verifications are not considered AND not counted.
- Leaderboards based on score rather than speed are excluded†



†The method used to differentiate speedruns from scores leaderboards can very rarely give false-negative. It happens when only the 1st place is/are are using the primary time comparison ([see this example screenshot](http://puu.sh/xfrpr/57d6358440.jpg)) wich you can easily fix if you're a mod or if your run is part of the leaderboard by updating the times.
